chore(blog): add  CoC Incident Report (#4148)
asyncapi/website: markdown/blog/coc-report.md

---
title: "Code of Conduct Incident Report"
date: 2025-07-28T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Community
cover: /img/posts/conflict-resolve.webp
authors:
  - name: Aishat Muibudeen (Maya)
    photo: /img/avatars/maya_picture.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/aishatmuibudeen/
    byline: AsyncAPI Design Lead & Code of Conduct Committee Member
excerpt: 'AsyncAPI Code of Conduct Committee Report Incident Summary – May 2025'
---

In early May 2025, the AsyncAPI community experienced a disruptive incident on Slack, involving a GSoC-related discussion that escalated into targeted accusations, hostility, and violations of our community Code of Conduct. This report outlines our findings, the actions taken, and the steps we will take moving forward.

## What Happened?

> A conversation started in our #mentorship channel, where certain community members raised concerns about the GSoC selection process for mentees. What initially appeared to be a heated discussion soon evolved into a coordinated effort involving multiple fake and impersonated Slack accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A conversation started in our `#mentorship` channel, where certain community members raised concerns about the GSoC selection process for mentees. What initially appeared to be a heated discussion soon evolved into a coordinated effort involving multiple fake and impersonated Slack accounts.
```

These accounts were used to:

- Harass selected mentees and accused them of unfair selection.
- Manipulate the discussion

> - Create confusion and break trust within the community.

Reviewer: This was mentioned in the next section, so it would be best to not mention it here.

## Investigation & Findings
The Code of Conduct Committee, composed of Maya, Ace, Thulie, and Łukasz, convened multiple times to review messages, examine account metadata, and speak with both mentors and mentees affected by the incident.

**Through our investigation, we confirmed that**:

- Several of the accounts involved were not authentic and had been created for the sole purpose of disruption.

> - Two individuals, already known members of the community, created separate identities to carry out harassment and impersonation. These accounts were used to post inflammatory messages and manipulate conversations anonymously. After investigation and outreach, both individuals confirmed ownership of the accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Two separate accounts were created to post inflammatory messages and manipulate conversations anonymously. After our investigation and outreach, two individuals who were known members of the community confessed to having ownership of the accounts.
```

Author: I would like to keep the original content, as the blog is quite sensitive

- A mentor unintentionally contributed to the confusion by communicating about GSoC selection independently from the organizing team, which fueled speculation and misinformation.

## Action Taken

1. Account Bans
The fake accounts were permanently removed from the Slack workspace. One individual, after being identified, issued an apology and remains in the community. The other did not respond to outreach and has been banned from the platform. We have also recommended their removal from the GSoC program.

2. Mentor Accountability
The CoC team has formally warned the mentor involved in the off-platform communications. While they intended to support and onboard contributors, their actions unintentionally contributed to confusion within the community. The CoC emphasized that future concerns regarding mentorship and selection processes should be directed to the official mentorship lead, Ace, to ensure transparency and consistency. Given the circumstances and the mentor’s good intentions, the committee has decided to handle this matter with leniency while providing clear guidance moving forward.

> 4. Support for Affected Individuals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Support for Affected Individuals
```

> 1. Account Bans
> The fake accounts were permanently removed from the Slack workspace. One individual, after being identified, issued an apology and remains in the community. The other did not respond to outreach and has been banned from the platform. We have also recommended their removal from the GSoC program.
> 
> 2. Mentor Accountability
> The CoC team has formally warned the mentor involved in the off-platform communications. While they intended to support and onboard contributors, their actions unintentionally contributed to confusion within the community. The CoC emphasized that future concerns regarding mentorship and selection processes should be directed to the official mentorship lead, Ace, to ensure transparency and consistency. Given the circumstances and the mentor’s good intentions, the committee has decided to handle this matter with leniency while providing clear guidance moving forward.
> 
> 3. Support for Affected Individuals
> All mentees and mentors affected were contacted directly by the CoC team to ensure they felt safe, supported, and heard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Account Bans**: The fake accounts were permanently removed from the Slack workspace. One individual, after being identified, issued an apology and remains in the community. The other did not respond to outreach and has been banned from the platform. We have also recommended their removal from the GSoC program.

2. **Mentor Accountability**: The CoC team has formally warned the mentor involved in the off-platform communications. While they intended to support and onboard contributors, their actions unintentionally contributed to confusion within the community. The CoC emphasized that future concerns regarding mentorship and selection processes should be directed to the official mentorship lead, Ace, to ensure transparency and consistency. Given the circumstances and the mentor’s good intentions, the committee has decided to handle this matter with leniency while providing clear guidance moving forward.

3. **Support for Affected Individuals**: All mentees and mentors affected were contacted directly by the CoC team to ensure they felt safe, supported, and heard.
```

## What We Learned

> This incident highlighted the importance of better CoC visibility and process clarity. It also underscored how easily trust can be shaken when communication is fragmented or unofficial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This incident highlighted the importance of better CoC visibility and process clarity. It also emphasized how easily trust can be shaken when communication is fragmented or unofficial.
```

Reviewer 2: We're almost here

Author: I don't think that's the tone Maya wanted to use. I would like the original contents not changed, especially the ones approved by the CoC, since its their report @bandantonio

## Next Steps

> We are taking the following measures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent similar incidents from happening in the future, we are taking the following measures:
```

- The CoC committee plans to establish monthly sync meetings to address community needs and improve coordination proactively.
- Assigning platform-specific CoC leads (Slack, GitHub, Events, and Socials).

> - Introducing onboarding and awareness sessions for mentors and Mentees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introducing onboarding and awareness sessions for mentors and mentees.
```

## Postponed CoC Committee Nominations
CoC Committee nominations were temporarily postponed while the incident was being resolved. We now recommend that future nominations be limited to TSC members to ensure all candidates have a verified and trusted presence within the community.

We are committed to upholding the values of openness, inclusion, and integrity. While this incident was difficult, we view it as an opportunity for growth, to strengthen our systems, enhance our culture, and protect what we’re building together.

> Thank you to everyone who supported us during this investigation. If you have any concerns or additional information, please contact the CoC team privately.

Reviewer: Mentioning [the conduct email as stated in the Code of Conduct file](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md#enforcement) could help community gain a better understanding of how to contact the team privately.

Author: There is a reason why it wasn't mentioned.

---
title: "Code of Conduct Incident Report"
date: 2025-06-20T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Community

> cover: 

Author: @Mayaleeeee we need a cover image

Reviewer 3: Sure, I'll share it here

Reviewer 3: ![cb6219d6b9446d927fe3cb4587d268ed.jpg](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f33c08a6-e780-4975-b06b-46a353d1eab1)

Alt text (for accessibility)

Illustration of a person mediating between two individuals in red and green, symbolizing conflict resolution and community accountability

authors:

>   - name: Thulisile Sibanda

Reviewer 3: Hi @thulieblack thanks again for helping with the PR.

A quick update: since I wrote the blog post and shared the content in the GitHub issue, would it be possible to update the author credit to **Aishat Muibudeen (Maya)?** That way it accurately reflects the contribution.

Let me know if anything is needed from my end. Thanks again!

Author: Hey @Mayaleeeee,  you'll have to edit the blog yourself and add all the details required for the frontmatter. I added mine as that's what I had, and the one who opened the PR.

Use the edit button to update the PR 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e45af345-ee37-4010-a3ed-1febdfc1b87b)

Reviewer 3: Yeah, yeah, I have seen it.

I am working on it atm.

How do I add my image? @thulieblack

Author: Hey @Mayaleeeee to add an image on the blog, you have to upload the WEBP to the website\public\img\posts folder and reference it on the front matter.

Author: Here is an example of how it should be https://github.com/asyncapi/website/blob/69824df21df33d0610bc22879d3cbad70a62d76f/markdown/blog/first-governance-elections.md?plain=1

    photo: /img/avatars/thulieblack.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/v-thulisile-sibanda/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Manager
excerpt: 'AsyncAPI Code of Conduct Committee Report Incident Summary – May 2025'
---

In early May 2025, the AsyncAPI community experienced a disruptive incident on Slack, involving a GSoC-related discussion that escalated into targeted accusations, hostility, and violations of our community Code of Conduct. This report outlines our findings, the actions taken, and the steps we will take moving forward.

## What Happened?
A conversation started in our #mentorship channel, where certain community members raised concerns about the GSoC selection process for mentees. What initially appeared to be a heated discussion soon evolved into a coordinated effort involving multiple fake and impersonated Slack accounts.

These accounts were used to:

- Harass selected mentees and accused them of unfair selection.
- Manipulate the discussion

> - Sow distrust and confusion within the community.

Reviewer 4: `Sow distrust`, sorry what does it mean? :)

Reviewer 3: What I meant by this was:

“Create confusion and break trust within the community.”

The incident caused unexpected tension and suspicion, especially since these individuals were hiding behind fake accounts. It created an atmosphere of “Who could this be?” and “Why would someone do this?”

## Investigation & Findings
The Code of Conduct Committee, composed of Maya, Ace, Thulie, and Łukasz, convened multiple times to review messages, examine account metadata, and speak with both mentors and mentees affected by the incident.

**Through our investigation, we confirmed that**:

- Several of the accounts involved were not authentic and had been created for the sole purpose of disruption.

- Two individuals, already known members of the community, created separate identities to carry out harassment and impersonation. These accounts were used to post inflammatory messages and manipulate conversations anonymously. After investigation and outreach, both individuals confirmed ownership of the accounts.

- A mentor unintentionally contributed to the confusion by communicating about GSoC selection independently from the organizing team, which fueled speculation and misinformation.

## Action Taken

1. Account Bans

> The fake accounts have been permanently removed from the Slack workspace. Individuals found to be behind in impersonation are being contacted. If they do not come forward by the stated deadline, they will be permanently banned from AsyncAPI platforms and recommended for removal from associated programs (e.g., GSoC, Linux Foundation).

Author: I believe we should update this part. One apologized and the other banned

Reviewer 4: yes, we should share latest status here

Reviewer 3: The fake accounts were permanently removed from the Slack workspace. One individual, after being identified, issued an apology and remains in the community. The other did not respond to outreach and has been banned from the platform. We have also recommended their removal from the GSoC program.

2. Mentor Accountability
The CoC team has formally warned the mentor involved in the off-platform communications. While they intended to support and onboard contributors, their actions unintentionally contributed to confusion within the community. The CoC emphasized that future concerns regarding mentorship and selection processes should be directed to the official mentorship lead, Ace, to ensure transparency and consistency. Given the circumstances and the mentor’s good intentions, the committee has decided to handle this matter with leniency while providing clear guidance moving forward.

3. Support for Affected Individuals
All mentees and mentors affected were contacted directly by the CoC team to ensure they felt safe, supported, and heard.

## What We Learned
This incident highlighted the importance of better CoC visibility and process clarity. It also underscored how easily trust can be shaken when communication is fragmented or unofficial.

## Next Steps
We are taking the following measures:

> - By establishing regular monthly/bi-weekly meetings in the community

Reviewer 4: what do you refer to here? if CoC sync, then make it clear please and specify it is monthly

Reviewer 3: The CoC committee plans to establish monthly sync meetings to proactively address community needs and improve coordination.

- Assigning platform-specific CoC leads (Slack, GitHub, Events, and Socials).

> - Introducing onboarding and awareness sessions for mentors and contributors.

Reviewer 4: contributors or mentees?

Reviewer 3: Mentees**

> - Publishing quarterly community updates to maintain transparency.

Reviewer 4: hard to commit to this, what could that be?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I understand.

Let's remove that line for now and instead focus on getting the monthly CoC syncs going.

If something urgent needs to be shared, we can always publish an update at that point, without being locked into a quarterly cadence.

## Postponed CoC Committee Nominations

> Due to the ongoing resolution of this matter, CoC Committee nominations are postponed. When resumed, nominations will be limited to TSC members to ensure that selected candidates have an established and verifiable presence within the community.

Reviewer 4: no longer ongoing

Reviewer 3: CoC Committee nominations were temporarily postponed during the resolution of this incident. We now recommend that future nominations be limited to TSC members to ensure all candidates have a verified and trusted presence within the community.
